layout: post 
date: 2020-12-30 
title: "Linear Algebra and thoughts on Rigor"

# Linear Algebra was the bane of my existence in college

Seriously. Its course number was MTH357 as in .357 magnum.  like I wanted to blow my damn head off with.  I didn't get it.  I never understood what it was we were trying to do with the course.  Now, granted, in retrospect, I didnt try that hard, but also, I didn't know how to try hard in school, as everything had been relatively easy for me up to that point.

22 years later, here I am trying to learn it, as linear algebra is a fairly fundamental concept when it comes to machine learning.  Now, the difference is I want to learn it.  The best courses I could find were offered on EdX.  They are taught by Math professors at Georgia Tech, and they provide a pdf copy of the text book they use at the school.  It is divided into 4 different classes, each representing 1/4 of the linear algebra class that students would take at GIT.  

Here is the catch: Rigor.  I can audit the course for free.  That is, I can do the practice problems, but not the quizes or the homework.  Or I can pay 199 dollars per class, or 800 dollars total for all four classes, to take a few quizzes to make sure I am progressing properly.  Now, If I am going to pay 800 buck for a class, I want the get the damn cerification (degree) that comes along with it.  Thats not going to happen, especially at this point in my career.  I'm a teacher for god's sake.  So... I am going to audit this class.  By default, this removes a large part of the rigor that is neccesary for learning.  

So, what do I do about it?  Fortunately, GIT (that's Georgia Institute for Technology, also know as Georgia Tech. Not GIT as GITHUB) publishes their own text book for this class- and they put it online for free. 


** <https://textbooks.math.gatech.edu/ila/index2.html> **

One hint that John passed on to be through his education trials, was: Anytime a text says, it can be easiely shown that...  Go ahead and show it.  This textbook has plenty of opportunities to do so.  Today I did about 1/3 of the first of 4 linear algebra classes.  Judging by the book, that take me to about chapter 2.3 in the text.  So, tomorrow, I am going to "show" all the things that can be easily shown.  In otherwords, I am going to do all the examples in the book to supply the rigor that the 800 dollar fee was supposed to provide.

Update:  Found some more problem sets that I am going to share, that is if you are interested in learning linear algebra on your own as well

** There is this one from UC Davis: **

** <https://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~linear/problem_sets.pdf> **

** And this one from MIT: **

** <http://web.mit.edu/18.06/www/Spring02/probsets/> **